WELCOME TO DUTCHPIPE

    With open source DutchPIPE software, web developers can make
    virtual multi-user environments. Each web page becomes an
    abstracted environment or location where visitors and other items
    on the page are visualized. This status is retained as visitors
    move around. A lot of real-time interaction is possible. The
    result: Persistent Interactive Page Environments. DutchPIPE uses
    AJAX and the DOM for the browser - it works without Java, Flash,
    plugin or firewall adjustments. On the server, PHP 5 is used.

WARNING

    This is unfinished software in alpha status. It is not for the
    faint of heart. Both code and documentation are in alpha status.
    This is the work of one man, in three months, after work. There
    will be bugs, issues, and even plain unfinished parts. Some parts
    are quite clean, others still the result of organic growth. This
    release is ment for those interested to play around with, to
    increase interest, get bug reports, attract contributors, and all
    that.

    You should be aware that DutchPIPE is not secure yet, if there is
    such a thing. For example, the AJAX engine uses lazy GETs all over
    the place, even when POSTs should be used, and the consequences of
    tinkering these requests have not been fully explored or closed
    yet. In other words: Only use this alpha software if you know what
    you are doing. Try this on a test machine, not your public company
    server with other sites or anything like that.

REQUIREMENTS

    Skills:

    1. Knowledge of PHP 5 and in particular PHP 5 objects.

    2. If you like more magic to happen than the current library
    provides, Javascript/AJAX knowledge is required.

    Hardware and software requirements:

    1. A *NIX or Windows platform
    DutchPIPE was developed and tested on FreeBSD 6. You must have
    full access to a computer or server to run DutchPIPE. I also
    installed it successfully on a Windows XP box, using
    http://www.wampserver.com/en/ to install Apache, PHP and MySQL.

    2. A webserver
    DutchPIPE.org runs on Apache 2.2, I haven't been able to test on
    other servers yet.

    3. PHP 5 with the extensions: simple_xml and sockets (both for the
    web server and "on the command line")
    DutchPIPE.org has been using PHP 5.1+. The simple_xml extension is
    supported by default on PHP 5.

    4. MySQL
    Used to store registered users. There are just a few queries, more
    databases will be supported later. If you don't have MySQL you can
    still test DutchPIPE if you rip some queries out, you just can't
    register.

    5. An AJAX capable web browser
    Currently Firefox, IE6 and IE7 beta 2 are supported 100%. Opera and
    Safari will be supported as soon as possible. If you can help test
    on Safari, please contact me.

GETTING STARTED/INSTALLATION
    For step-by-step instructions how to install DutchPIPE using WAMP5
    (Apache, MySQL and PHP for Windows), see:
    doc/install-wamp.txt

    For *NIX and generic instructions, continue here:

    1. Obtain the software from http://dutchpipe.org/

    2. Unpack the software in the directory of your choice

    3. Configure your installation by patching:
    config/dpserver-ini.php
    config/dpuniverse-ini.php
    Follow the instructions in these files.

    Make sure the first line of:
    script/start_dpserver.php
    refers to the php command line installation. Make sure this file
    is executable (see man chmod under *NIX).

    4. Create a database 'dutchpipe' and import the following SQL:
    config/setupmysql.sql

    5. Configure your web server
    If you already have a location to test DutchPIPE, you can skip
    step 5 and 6.

    Decide on what URL you want to host your DutchPIPE installation.
    You need to let your web server know where to find the directory
    with the DutchPIPE public files.

    There are many ways to add DutchPIPE, this is just one of them.
    For Apache 2.2, I added the following to the vhosts configuration
    file, located at /usr/local/etc/apache22/extra/httpd-vhosts.conf
    in my FreeBSD 6 installation:

    <VirtualHost *:80>
        ServerAdmin webmaster@yourdomain.com
        DocumentRoot /path/to/dutchpipe/public
        ServerName www.yourdomain.com
        <Directory "/path/to/dutchpipe/public">
            DirectoryIndex dpclient.php
            Options All
            AllowOverride All
            AddType application/x-httpd-php .php
            Order allow,deny
            Allow from all
        </Directory>
    </VirtualHost>

    6. Restart your web server
    In my case: /usr/local/etc/rc.d/apache22.sh restart

    7. Run the DutchPIPE server
    In my case:
    cd scripts
    ./start_dpserver.php

    It will output some memory and debug information, so you might
    want to try:
    ./start_dpserver.php > mylog
    to throw everything in a log file.

    There is no proper restart script yet. I simply kill the process
    and start the script again to restart the server.

    8. Browse to your DutchPIPE public installation
    In my case: http://dutchpipe.org/

    You should now see an example DutchPIPE installation in your
    browser.

    See the doc/ directory and the DutchPIPE site for further
    information how to go on from here and how to start building
    your own pages and objects. There isn't much yet, so don't worry
    if you find yourself scratching your head, it isn't your fault.
    The examples are the best way to start, and I promise (really) if
    you come back later you'll find more documentation and more to
    work with.

DIRECTORY LAYOUT

    Although this will most likely change in the near future,
    currently DutchPIPE has the following directory structure:

    config/ - Configuration files
    doc/ - Documentation files
    dpuniverse/ - Your "universe", you can build a site inside this
    directory without worrying much of what goes on beyond it
    lib/ - The DutchPIPE server/engine and other DutchPIPE components
    public/ - Web enabled and publicly reachable directory
    script/ - DutchPIPE server startup script
    template/ - Templates for building XHTML pages

TROUBLESHOOTING/GETTING HELP/GIVING FEEDBACK

    I'll try to test usage on as many platforms as possible to allow
    for painless installation, but obviously I didn't have much time
    for that yet. Since this is all new and tested on a limited number
    of platforms, with lack of documentation, feel welcome to share
    your experiences or particular pains and problems with the
    DutchPIPE installation.

    See the DEVELOPERS LOUNGE, MAILING LISTS and THE AUTHOR sections
    below for contact details. If you solved a particular installation
    problem, or installed it succesfully in a previously untested
    platform, please also let me know, so I can update the
    documentation.

HOMEPAGE

    For the latest releases, news, et cetera, see the DutchPIPE
    website at:
    http://dutchpipe.org/

DEVELOPERS LOUNGE

    If you're experiencing problems, want to share ideas or just want
    to lay back and sip on hot coffee, visit the developers lounge at:
    http://dutchpipe.org/dpclient.php?location=/page/lounge.php

MAILING LISTS

    There are a number of DutchPIPE mailing lists, for instance to
    talk about DutchPIPE or to discuss installation problems. For an
    overview and to (un)subscribe, browse to:
    http://dutchpipe.org/mailman/

    If you're a serious developer, dutchpipe-talk is the best way to
    discuss issues.

THE AUTHOR

    DutchPIPE was made by Lennert Stock. Feel free to send comments
    and bug reports to the author at:
    ls@dutchpipe.org

ROADMAP

    Well there isn't exactly a roadmap yet, but here are just -a few-
    of the things on the wishlist.

    First of all I must spend some time on non-coding issues so I can
    properly start this project up. Provide proper documentation so
    people can, ehm, actually use it, provide the usual tools such as
    bug trackers and subversion access, and market the thing if
    necessary, although I'm hoping you pass the word though.

    The interface is still crude and must be made more user friendly.
    The verb noun commands should only remain for power users and
    under the hood, input fields for communications should pop up or
    whatever.

    Debugging and making DutchPIPE more secure.

    Moveable or even animated objects.

    Debugging and adhancements on running DutchPIPE on .html pages.
    Making it possible to run DutchPIPE on pages on another server.
    For this we need a proxy script to forward AJAX requests as AJAX
    cannot be used across domains for security reasons.

    Make options to let visitors make their own objects and "area".

    Distributed DutchPIPE: Make it possible for DutchPIPE sites to
    see, communicate and switch to other DutchPIPE sites, making it
    one big, sprawling universe.

    Better dpuniverse/std library. The library provided for the
    universe is very basic now, and lots of functionality will be
    added

    More showcases.

    Learn English/learn how to spell.

    Et cetera, et cetera. Of course this can't be done by one man, so
    if you'd like any of the above or any other ideas implemented,
    please read on...

CONTRIBUTING

    DutchPIPE is a brand new, fresh open source project. If you'd like
    to contribute in any way, be it code, bugs, documentation, or open
    source experience such as project setup and management, please
    mail ls@dutchpipe.org. The DutchPIPE "noosphere" is huge and for the
    taking. This will be a free project in any sense, if you shine at
    some particular skill or knowledge, you'll be able to pretty much
    give it shape any way you please. Again, this project is fresh.
    If you like established projects with all the tools firmly in
    place, DutchPIPE is not for you. However, if you're full of
    inspiration and just like to code, no one is in your way, no one
    has done it yet and probably no one is even planning it. You keep
    the copyright of your OS licensed contributions and are fully
    credited for your efforts. Also, if you disliked certain things or
    setups in other projects which appear to be written in stone, this
    is your change to make your mark and make your experience count.

